docs: Updated README with a full revamp (#31614)
renovatebot/renovate: readme.md

![Mend Renovate CLI banner](https://docs.renovatebot.com/assets/images/mend-renovate-cli-banner.jpg)

[![License: AGPL-3.0-only](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-%20%09AGPL--3.0--only-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/renovatebot/renovate/main/license)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/renovatebot/renovate/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/renovatebot/renovate)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![Build status](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/actions/workflows/build.yml)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/renovate/renovate?color=turquoise)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/renovatebot/renovate/badge)](https://securityscorecards.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/renovatebot/renovate)

# What is the Mend Renovate CLI?

Renovate is an automated dependency update tool.
It helps to update dependencies in your code without needing to do it manually.

> When Renovate runs on your repo, it looks for references to dependencies (both public and private) and, if there are newer versions available, Renovate can create pull requests to update your versions automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Renovate runs on your repo, it looks for references to public or private dependencies.
If Renovate finds newer versions, Renovate creates Pull Requests to update your versions.
```

## Features

> - Delivers update PRs directly to your repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get dependency updates PRs for your repositories
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, but I like to hit the point that the PRs go directly to your repo. And I want to start the point with "Delivers update PRs" - getting right to the point in the shortest words possible.

>   - Relevant package files are discovered automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Renovate automatically finds nearly all relevant package files
```

Renovate mostly finds all the relevant package files automatically. But sometimes users must tell Renovate where/how to find some package files.

I'll let you decide if the promise is: "Renovate finds all package files" or "Renovate finds most package files".

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I don't think we need to drill into details about edge cases (ie. some packages need help) in the overview page. And whether it's "all" or "most", the short statement "package files are discovered" covers the point and is still true.

>   - Pull Requests automatically generated in your repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This duplicates information from the first list item: `Delivers update PRs directly to your repo`.

Author: I see your point. The heading is a summary and this bullet point fleshes it out in more detail.

> - Provides useful information to help you decide which updates to accept (age, adoption, pass rates, merge confidence)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Renovate's PRs have badges to help you decide if you want to update:
  - The age of the package update
  - How many of the Mend-hosted app users updated to this version of the package
  - The test pass rates for Mend-hosted app users
  - A merge confidence score, that combines all the info above into a single number
```

Author: For the page re-write, I went with an approach to reduce the overall page height by deliberately collapsing bulleted lists into comma-separated strings.

- Highly configurable and flexible to fit in with your needs and repository standards
- Largest collection of languages and platforms (listed below)
- Connects with private repositories and package registries

### Languages

> Renovate can provide updates for most popular languages, platforms, and registries including: npm, Java, Python, .NET, Scala, Ruby, Go, Docker and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate can provide updates for most popular languages, platforms, and registries including:

- npm
- Java
- Python
- .NET
- Scala
- Ruby
- Go
- Docker
- And even more
```

Author: For the page re-write, I went with an approach to reduce the overall page height by deliberately collapsing bulleted lists into comma-separated strings.

> Supports over 90 different package managers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate supports more than 90 package managers.
```

Author: The version submitted says the same thing in less words. I prefer the concise version.

### Platforms

> Renovate updates code repositories on the following platforms: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, Azure DevOps, AWS Code Commit, Gitea, Forgejo, Gerrit (experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renovate can update dependencies in repositories on the following platforms:

- GitHub
- GitLab
- Bitbucket
- Azure DevOps
- AWS Code Commit
- Gitea
- Forgejo
- Gerrit (experimental)
```

Author: For the page re-write, I went with an approach to reduce the overall page height by deliberately collapsing bulleted lists into comma-separated strings.

> ## Ways to Run Renovate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ways to run Renovate
```

> The most effective way to run Renovate is to use an automated job scheduling system that regularly runs Renovate on all enabled repositories and responds with priority to user activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to run Renovate is to use an automated job scheduling system that:

- regularly runs Renovate on all enabled repositories 
- responds with priority to user activity
```

Author: I am going for a shorter version (less page height), so prefer not to break into bullet points things that can be said in a single sentence.

> Mend offers cloud-hosted and self-hosted solutions. See the options below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mend offers cloud-hosted and self-hosted solutions.
See the options below.
```

Author: I am going for a shorter version (less page height), so prefer not to add additional line breaks.

### Mend Renovate Community (Cloud-Hosted)

**Supports: GitHub.com, Bitbucket Cloud**

> Hosted by Mend.io. No setup is required. Community plan available (Free)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hosted by Mend.io.
No setup is required.
Community plan available (Free).
```

Author: I am going for a shorter version (less page height), so prefer not to add additional line breaks.

- GitHub Cloud: Install the [Renovate Cloud-Hosted App](https://github.com/apps/renovate) on your GitHub org, then select the repos to enable

> - Bitbucket Cloud: Add the [Mend App](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1232072/mend) to your Workspace, the add the Mend Renovate user to the projects you want to enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bitbucket Cloud: Add the [Mend App](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1232072/mend) to your Workspace, then add the Mend Renovate user to the projects you want to enable
```

### Mend Renovate Community (Self-hosted)

**Supports: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket Data Center**

> Install and run your own Renovate server. Access internal packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install and run your own Renovate server.
Access internal packages.
```

Author: I am going for a shorter version (less page height), so prefer not to add additional line breaks.

#### Run Renovate on your Pipeline

Mend provides a _**GitHub Action**_ and _**GitLab Runner**_ to make it easier to run Renovate as a CI pipeline job.

- GitHub Action: [renovatebot/github-action](https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action).
- GitLab Runner: [Renovate Runner project](https://gitlab.com/renovate-bot/renovate-runner/)
- AzureDevOps action: [Renovate Me extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=jyc.vsts-extensions-renovate-me)<br>
  _Note: This extension is created and maintained personally by a Renovate developer/user so support requests relating to the extension itself cannot be answered directly in the main Renovate repository._
- Custom pipeline: You can create a custom pipeline with a **yml** definition that triggers **npx renovate**. [More details on how to configure the pipeline](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/platform/azure/).

#### Run Renovate CLI

There are several ways to run the Renovate CLI directly.
See docs: [Running Renovate](https://docs.renovatebot.com/getting-started/running/) for all options.

**Targets: all platforms**

## Docs

### More about Renovate

> - Renovate basics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Renovate basics:
```

Author: I don't really like adding colons to a list heading.

  - [Why use Renovate](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#why-use-renovate)
  - [What does it do? / How does it work?](https://docs.renovatebot.com/key-concepts/how-renovate-works/)
  - [Who is using it?](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#who-uses-renovate)
- Supported platforms and languages
  - [Supported platforms](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#supported-platforms)
  - [Supported languages / package managers](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/manager/)

> - Advanced renovate usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Advanced Renovate usage:
```

Author: I don't really like adding colons to a list heading.

  - [Accessing private packages](https://docs.renovatebot.com/getting-started/private-packages/)
  - [Merge Confidence data](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/)

### Renovate Docs

- [Renovate Configuration](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/)
- [Mend Renovate Self-Hosted Docs](https://github.com/mend/renovate-ce-ee/tree/main/docs)

### Comparisons

- [Different ways to run Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/)

> - [Renovate vs Dependabot Comparison](https://docs.renovatebot.com/bot-comparison/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Renovate vs Dependabot](https://docs.renovatebot.com/bot-comparison/)
```

The heading says `### Comparisons` already, so I think we can drop the `Comparison` bit in the list item.

## Get involved

### Issues and Discussions

> We prefer all items to be opened as a discussion before opening an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please open a Discussion, to get help, suggest a new feature, or to report a bug.
We only want maintainers to open Issues.
```

How about this?

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I'll think about this one.
In any event, can you please remove the comma after "Discussion".

> - [GitHub Discussions forum](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [GitHub Discussions for Renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions)
```

### Contributing

To contribute to Renovate, or run a local copy, please read the contributing guidelines.

- [Guidelines for Contributing](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/main/.github/contributing.md)
- Items that need contribution: [good first issues](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/contribute)

### Contact and Social Media

The Renovate project is proudly supported and actively maintained by Mend.io.

- Contact [Mend.io](http://Mend.io) for commercial support questions.

> Follow us on Twitter, LinkedIn and Mastodon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow us on:
```

Author: I don't really like adding colons to a list heading.

- Twitter: [x.com/mend_io](http://x.com/mend_io)

> - LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/company/mend-io](https://linkedin.com/company/mend-io)

Reviewer: The list is missing the Mastodon contact info. :wink:

Author: Removed the detail from the list heading per your suggestion. Thanks

## Features

- Delivers update PRs directly to your repo
  - Relevant package files are discovered automatically
  - Pull Requests automatically generated in your repo
- Provides useful information to help you decide which updates to accept (age, adoption, pass rates, merge confidence)
- Highly configurable and flexible to fit in with your needs and repository standards
- Largest collection of languages and platforms (listed below)
- Connects with private repositories and package registries

### Languages

Renovate can provide updates for most popular languages, platforms, and registries including: npm, Java, Python, .NET, Scala, Ruby, Go, Docker and more.
Supports over 90 different package managers.

### Platforms

Renovate updates code repositories on the following platforms: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, Azure DevOps, AWS Code Commit, Gitea, Forgejo, Gerrit (experimental)

## Ways to run Renovate

The most effective way to run Renovate is to use an automated job scheduling system that regularly runs Renovate on all enabled repositories and responds with priority to user activity.

> Mend offers cloud-hosted and self-hosted solutions. See the options below.

Author: Thanks. My bad. Will fix it now.

  - [Merge Confidence data](https://docs.renovatebot.com/merge-confidence/)

### Renovate Docs

- [Renovate Configuration](https://docs.renovatebot.com/configuration-options/)
- [Mend Renovate Self-Hosted Docs](https://github.com/mend/renovate-ce-ee/tree/main/docs)

### Comparisons

- [Different ways to run Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/)
- [Renovate vs Dependabot](https://docs.renovatebot.com/bot-comparison/)

## Get involved

### Issues and Discussions

Please open a Discussion to get help, suggest a new feature, or to report a bug.
We only want maintainers to open Issues.

- [GitHub Discussions for Renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions)

### Contributing

To contribute to Renovate, or run a local copy, please read the contributing guidelines.

- [Guidelines for Contributing](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/main/.github/contributing.md)
- Items that need contribution: [good first issues](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/contribute)

### Contact and Social Media

The Renovate project is proudly supported and actively maintained by Mend.io.

> - Contact [Mend.io](http://Mend.io) for commercial support questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contact [Mend.io](https://www.mend.io/) for commercial support questions.
```

- Links should use HTTPS
- Links are lowercase

Please check if the new link is correct. 😉

Follow us on:

> - Twitter: [x.com/mend_io](http://x.com/mend_io)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Twitter: [x.com/mend_io](https://x.com/mend_io)
```

- Links should use HTTPS

Reviewer: > Why? If the page has no secure content and does not take input, what's the point in having the overhead of secure encryption?

The Mend Twitter page does not take input. But users may click on the Mend Twitter link, read a tweet, and then _login_ to Twitter, to tweet back.

The catch is that the user may accidentally log in on a hacked page. Here's the sequence of events:

1. User clicks on HTTP link.
1. Hacker reads the HTTP request, intercepts it, and sends user to a hacker-controlled copy of the real page.
1. The user logs in on the _fake_ page.
1. Hacker logs in for the user to the real page.
1. Hacker sends user to the _real_ page.
1. Hacker now has credentials for the user account.
1. User doesn't know they just got hacked, as to them everything seemed normal.
1. Hacker tries credentials on other accounts from the user. Many users re-use the same password on multiple accounts.

When we use HTTPS links, this kind of attack gets harder to do.

## OWASP recommendations

I'll let smarter people explain why HTTPS is good:

### [OWASP, Insecure Transport](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/Insecure_Transport)

> The application configuration should ensure that SSL is used for all access controlled pages.
> 
> If an application uses SSL to guarantee confidential communication with client browsers, the application configuration should make it impossible to view any access controlled page without SSL. However, it is not an uncommon problem that the configuration of the application fails to enforce the use of SSL on pages that contain sensitive data.
> 
> There are three common ways for SSL to be bypassed:
> 
> - A user manually enters the URL and types “HTTP” rather than “HTTPS”.
> - Attackers intentionally send a user to an insecure URL.
> - A programmer erroneously creates a relative link to a page in the application, failing to switch from HTTP to HTTPS. (This is particularly easy to do when the link moves between public and secured areas on a web site.)
>
> **Examples**
> 
> - Login pages are not SSL protected
> - A publicly accessible page contains a relative link to a protected page which forgets to switch to SSL.
> 
> **Related Attacks**
> 
> - Attackers that are trying to steal login credentials, session IDs or other sensitive information
> - Bypassing SSL by entering HTTP instead of HTTPS
> - Sending insecure URLs of protected pages to the victim (e.g. login page) to trick the victim into accessing the privileged pages via HTTP

### [The OWASP Transport Layer Security Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html#use-tls-for-all-pages)

> TLS should be used for all pages, not just those that are considered sensitive such as the login page. If there are any pages that do not enforce the use of TLS, these could give an attacker an opportunity to sniff sensitive information such as session tokens, or to inject malicious JavaScript into the responses to carry out other attacks against the user.

Author: Thanks for the explanation. I didn't know all that. Much appreciated. I will always use https link from now on. 👍

Reviewer: You're welcome! :smile:

![Mend Renovate CLI banner](https://docs.renovatebot.com/assets/images/mend-renovate-cli-banner.jpg)

[![License: AGPL-3.0-only](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-%20%09AGPL--3.0--only-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/renovatebot/renovate/main/license)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/renovatebot/renovate/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/renovatebot/renovate)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![Build status](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/actions/workflows/build.yml)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/renovate/renovate?color=turquoise)
[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/renovatebot/renovate/badge)](https://securityscorecards.dev/viewer/?uri=github.com/renovatebot/renovate)

> # What is the Mend Renovate CLI?

Reviewer: Just a quick note, we also have this issue:

- #29446

I'm assigning `@justo-mend` to that issue, and will let them decide what to do with the todos listed in that issue. :wink:

I'm mentioning this, in case you want to automatically close my issue with your revamp PR. :wink:

Author: OK. Thanks. I think we can work on those items in subsequent updates.
Thanks for the detailed list of ideas.

Renovate is an automated dependency update tool.
It helps to update dependencies in your code without needing to do it manually.
When Renovate runs on your repo, it looks for references to dependencies (both public and private) and, if there are newer versions available, Renovate can create pull requests to update your versions automatically.

## Features

- Delivers update PRs directly to your repo
  - Relevant package files are discovered automatically
  - Pull Requests automatically generated in your repo
- Provides useful information to help you decide which updates to accept (age, adoption, pass rates, merge confidence)
- Highly configurable and flexible to fit in with your needs and repository standards
- Largest collection of languages and platforms (listed below)
- Connects with private repositories and package registries

### Languages

Renovate can provide updates for most popular languages, platforms, and registries including: npm, Java, Python, .NET, Scala, Ruby, Go, Docker and more.

> Supports over 90 different package managers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supports over [90 different package managers](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/manager/).
```

Mend offers cloud-hosted and self-hosted solutions.
See the options below.

### Mend Renovate Community (Cloud-Hosted)

**Supports: GitHub.com, Bitbucket Cloud**

Hosted by Mend.io.
No setup is needed.
Community plan available (Free)

- GitHub Cloud: Install the [Renovate Cloud-Hosted App](https://github.com/apps/renovate) on your GitHub org, then select the repos to enable
- Bitbucket Cloud: Add the [Mend App](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1232072/mend) to your Workspace, then add the Mend Renovate user to the projects you want to enable

### Mend Renovate Community (Self-hosted)

**Supports: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket Data Center**

Install and run your own Renovate server.
Access internal packages.

- [Mend Renovate Community Self-Hosted](https://github.com/mend/renovate-ce-ee/tree/main/docs) (Free)
- [Mend Renovate Enterprise](https://www.mend.io/mend-renovate/) (Paid plan)

### Other ways to run Renovate

If you can’t use a pre-built job scheduling system, or want to build your own, the following options are available:

#### Run Renovate on your Pipeline

> Mend provides a _**GitHub Action**_ and _**GitLab Runner**_ to help you run Renovate as a CI pipeline job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mend provides a _**GitHub Action**_ or a _**GitLab Runner**_ to help you run Renovate as a CI pipeline job.
```

This may be really stupid, but we want to avoid users thinking they need to use _both_ of these tools at once. :upside_down_face: 

So maybe replacing `and` with `or a` helps explain that you should use _one_ of these tools, not both?

- GitHub Action: [renovatebot/github-action](https://github.com/renovatebot/github-action).
- GitLab Runner: [Renovate Runner project](https://gitlab.com/renovate-bot/renovate-runner/)
- AzureDevOps action: [Renovate Me extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=jyc.vsts-extensions-renovate-me)<br>
  _Note: This extension is created and maintained personally by a Renovate developer/user. Support requests for the extension will not be answered directly in the main Renovate repository._
- Custom pipeline: You can create a custom pipeline with a **yml** definition that triggers **npx renovate**. [More details on how to configure the pipeline](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/platform/azure/).

#### Run Renovate CLI

There are several ways to run the Renovate CLI directly.
See docs: [Running Renovate](https://docs.renovatebot.com/getting-started/running/) for all options.

> **Targets: all platforms**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Supports: all platforms**
```

All other similar sentences use `Supports`. So maybe this sentence should match that pattern too?

Author: Thanks

## Docs

### More about Renovate

- Renovate basics
  - [Why use Renovate](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#why-use-renovate)
  - [What does it do? / How does it work?](https://docs.renovatebot.com/key-concepts/how-renovate-works/)
  - [Who is using it?](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#who-uses-renovate)
- Supported platforms and languages
  - [Supported platforms](https://docs.renovatebot.com/#supported-platforms)
  - [Supported languages / package managers](https://docs.renovatebot.com/modules/manager/)

> - Advanced renovate usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Advanced Renovate usage
```

Even if you don't like the `:` from before, you should still capitalize the brand name. :wink:

Author: Absolutely! Nice pickup. Thanks
